KZG Polynomial Commitment Scheme (#118)
eth-protocol-fellows/protocol-studies: docs/wiki/Cryptography/KZG.md

# KZG Polynomial Commitment Scheme

## [TLDR](#tldr)
The KZG commitment scheme is like a cryptographic vault for securely locking away polynomials (mathematical equations) so that you can later prove you have them without giving away their secrets. It's like making a sealed promise that you can validate without ever having to open it up and show the contents. Using advanced math based on elliptic curves, it enables efficient, verifiable commitments that are a key part of making blockchain transactions more private and scalable. This scheme is especially important for Ethereum's upgrades, where it helps to verify transactions quickly and securely without compromising on privacy.

The KZG Polynomial Commitment Scheme ensures that both commitments and evaluation proofs are of a fixed size, regardless of the polynomial's length, offering consistent and space-efficient cryptographic operations[^5][^6][^7].

## [Motivation](#motivation)

> 

Author: Great, thx.

> ### [ZKSNARKs](#zksnarks)

Author: Great, thx. Shortened and wrote a brief paragraph for the Ethereum based KZG applications.

IOP is another method that helps in proving that you know a secret value without revealing it. It's used along with PCS to make a ZKSNARK. The IOP helps in proving the knowledge, while PCS makes the proof short and easy to check. This combination allows for creating efficient ZKSNARKs that can be used in many areas, like blockchain and privacy-preserving computations.

To make ZKSNARKs, you need to choose a PCS and IOP that work well together. The PCS is used to commit to a polynomial and prove the evaluation of the polynomial at a certain point without revealing the polynomial. The IOP is used to create a proof of knowledge, which is then turned into a non-interactive proof using a method called the Fiat-Shamir heuristic. This makes it possible to generate and verify the proof without needing to communicate in real-time, making ZKSNARKs useful for blockchain and distributed systems.

### [Ethereum Danksharding](#ethereum-danksharding)

> KZG commitment scheme has emerged as a pivotal technology in the Ethereum ecosystem, particularly in the context of Proto-Danksharding and its anticipated evolution into Danksharding. This commitment scheme is a cornerstone of many Zero-Knowledge (ZK) related applications within Ethereum, enabling efficient and secure verification of data without revealing the underlying information.

Author: Great, thx. Shortened the ZKSNARKS explanation and expanded the KZG use cases in Ethereum based applications.

Moreover, the KZG commitment scheme is not only limited to Ethereum but has broader applications in the blockchain and cryptographic communities. Its ability to commit to a polynomial and verify evaluations of the polynomial without revealing the polynomial itself makes it a versatile tool for various cryptographic protocols and applications. 

## [Goal](#goal)
Now that we are motivated to learn PCS, let us get started with defining what is our goal i.e. what is the exact problem we want to solve with KZG scheme. 

Say we have a function or polynomial $f(x)$ defined as $f(x) = f_0 + f_1x + f_2x^2 + \ldots + f_dx^t$. The degree of $f(x)$ is $t$.

> Our main goal with KZG scheme is that we want to prove to someone that we know this polynomial without revealing the polynomial. What do we mean by without revealing by polynomial? We meant that without revealing the coefficients of the polynomial. 

Author: Great, thx.

In practice what we exactly do is that we prove that we know a specific evaluation of this polynomial at a point $x=a$. 

We write this, $f(a)$, for some $x=a$. 

> ## [What we need to know before we discuss KZG](#what-we-need-to-know-before-we-discuss-kzg)

Author: Gtreat, thx.

There are some important concepts we need to know before we can move further to understand KZG scheme. Fortunately, we can get an Engineering level understanding of the KZG scheme from just enough high school mathematics. We will try to gain some intuition on advanced concepts and their important properties without knowing them intimately. This can help us see the KZG protocol flow without bogged down by the advanced mathematics.

We need to know:

### [Modular Arithmetic](#modular-arithmetic)

> - Can you read a clock? Can you add/subtract two time values? In general can you do clock arithmetic? This is called Modular arithmetic. We only need to know how to add, subtract, multiply or divide numbers and apply modulus operation (the clock scale). 

Author: Great, thx.

- **PSE's Summa, Proof of Solvenecy Protocol**: Ethereum Foundation's PSE group project, Summa, leverages KZG commitments in its Proof of Solvency protocol. This allows centralized exchanges and custodians to demonstrate that their total assets exceed their liabilities, all while keeping user balance information private.
  
- **Scroll's zkRollups**: Scroll, a native zkEVM Layer 2 for Ethereum, uses KZG to generate commitments to a collection of polynomials that encapsulate computations. This allows verifiers to request evaluations at random points to validate the accuracy of the computation represented by the polynomials.

- **Jellyfish**: Jellyfish employs the KZG commitment scheme to generate commitments to polynomials during the commitment phase. It leverages the homomorphic properties of KZG for efficient evaluation of the polynomial at any point without revealing its coefficients.

- **Hyperplonk**: Hyperplonk utilizes the multi-linear KZG commitment, indicating its application in scenarios requiring multi-linear polynomial commitments.

> ## [Goal](#goal)

Author: Apologies. I am unable to see any headers with extra space. All headers are formatted the same way. 
Can you please point me to an example in the article? Thank you.

> ## [Goal](#goal)

Reviewer: Sorry I haven't been clear, I meant a new line under the header. For example headers on line 52 and 56, the former starts the paragraph without a new line and latter adds it 
![image](https://github.com/eth-protocol-fellows/protocol-studies/assets/61149543/c4db8e3b-79e2-4a9d-b94a-3d6a7573bea9)

> ## [Goal](#goal)

Author: Great, thx. Fixed.

## [Prerequisite Knowledge](#prerequisite-knowledge)

There are some important concepts we need to know before we can move further to understand KZG scheme. Fortunately, we can get an Engineering level understanding of the KZG scheme from just enough high school mathematics. We will try to gain some intuition on advanced concepts and their important properties without knowing them intimately. This can help us see the KZG protocol flow without bogged down by the advanced mathematics.

We need to know:

### [Modular Arithmetic](#modular-arithmetic)
An analog clock illustrates modular arithmetic as hours cycle back after reaching their limit. For KZG, it's enough to know simple arithmetic—adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing—along with using the modulus operation, just like a clock resets after 12 or 24 hours.

### [Finite Field of order prime p](#finite-field-of-order-prime)

A finite field of order prime $p$, we denote it by $\mathbb F_p$, is a special set of numbers, { $\{1, 2, 3, \ldots, p-1\}$ },  where you can do all the usual math operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, except by zero) and still follow the rules of arithmetic. 

> The "order" of this set is the number of elements it contains, and for a finite field of order prime $p$, this number is a prime number. The most common way to create a $\mathbb F_p$ is by taking the set of all integers greathan or equal to $0$ and dividing them by $p$, keeping only the remainders. This gives us a set of numbers from $0$ to $p-1$ that can be used for arithmetic operations. For example, if $p = 5$, the set would be {0, 1, 2, 3, 4}, and you can add, subtract, multiply, and divide these numbers in a way that follows the rules of arithmetic. This set is a finite field of order 5, we denote this by $\mathbb F_5$, because it has exactly 5 elements, and it's a prime number.

Author: Great, thx.

When we do modular arithmetic operations in the finite field $\mathbb F_p$, we have a nice "wrap around" property i.e. the field behaves as if it "wraps around" after reaching $(p - 1)$. 

> In genral, when we define a finite field, we define, the order $p$ of the field and an arithemetic operation like addition or multiplication. If it is addition, we denote the field by $(\mathbb F_p, +)$. If it is multiplication, we denote it by $(\mathbb F^*_p, +)$. The `*` is telling us to exclude the zero element from our field so that we can satisfy all the required properties of the finite field i.e. mainly we can divide the numbers and find inverse of all elements. If we include the zero element, we can't find the inverse of zero element.

Author: Great, thx.

### [Group](#group)

> A Group is a similar concept as finite field with some small changes. In a Group, we only have one arithmetic operation on the set, usually addition or multiplication as opposed to in a finite field we have addition and multiplication both and this group must satisfy few properties which we will discuss below with an example. We denote a Group by ($\mathbb G, +)$ for a Group with addition as the group operation, ($\mathbb G^*, .)$ for Group with multiplication operation; the `*` is telling to exclude zero element to avoid division by zero.

Author: Great, thx.

Let's verify that each element is indeed a generator by multiplying it repeatedly modulo $7$:

- Starting with $2$, we multiply by $2$ each time and take the result modulo $7$:
  - $2^1 = 2$
  - $2^2 = 4$
  - $2^3 = 8 \equiv 1 \mod 7$
  - $2^4 = 16 \equiv 2 \mod 7$ (and here we cycle back to the beginning, showing that $2$ is not a generator)

- Let's try $3$:
  - $3^1 = 3$
  - $3^2 = 9 \equiv 2 \mod 7$
  - $3^3 = 27 \equiv 6 \mod 7$
  - $3^4 = 81 \equiv 4 \mod 7$
  - $3^5 = 243 \equiv 5 \mod 7$
  - $3^6 = 729 \equiv 1 \mod 7$ (and since we've reached the identity after hitting all elements, $3$ is a generator)

You can verify that $5$ is also a generator for our multiplicative group ($\mathbb G^*_7, .)$ modulo $7$. 

In the next section, we will learn how generators enable the KZG commitment scheme to function as an efficient, secure, and verifiable method of committing to polynomials, making it a powerful tool for cryptographic protocols, particularly in blockchain technologies where these qualities are very important.

> ### [Why Primes for Modulo Operations in Fields](#why-primes-for-modulo-operations-in-fields)

Author: Great, thx.

Choosing a prime number as the modulus for operations in a finite field offers several benefits and simplifies various aspects of field arithmetic:

1. **Well-defined Division:** In a finite field, every non-zero element must have a multiplicative inverse. If the modulus is prime, every number in the set  { ${1, 2, 3, \ldots, p-1}$ } has a multiplicative inverse modulo $p$. This property allows for well-defined division operations within the field, which wouldn't be possible if the modulus wasn't prime (except in special cases like Galois fields of order $p^n$, where $p$ is prime).

2. **Simplicity of Construction:** When the modulus is a prime number, the field's construction is straightforward. The elements of the field are simply the set of integers  { ${1, 2, 3, \ldots, p-1}$ }, and the field operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division) are performed modulo $p$. For non-prime moduli, constructing a field requires more complex structures, such as polynomial rings.

> 3. **Guaranteed Field Properties:** The use of a prime modulus guarantees the satisfaction of field properties. A finite field (also known as a Galois field) is a field that contains a finite number of elements. For a set to be a field, it must satisfy several properties, including the existence of additive and multiplicative identities, the existence of additive and multiplicative inverses for every element, and the commutative, associative, and distributive laws for addition and multiplication. A prime modulus ensures all these properties are met.

Author: Great, thx.

Now, suppose Alice and Bob decide to collaborate and combine their secret recipes to create a super-secret batch of cookies $g^{ab}$. The Strong Diffie-Hellman assumption is saying that even if someone has tasted both Alice's and Bob's individual batches, they can't decipher what their combined super-secret batch would taste like. The flavors of the combined recipe are indistinguishable from any other batch without knowing the exact combination of Alice's and Bob's recipes.

So, in essence, the Strong Diffie-Hellman assumption tells us that just knowing the outcomes of individual secrets (recipes) doesn't help anyone crack the result of combining those secrets. This is a cornerstone of secure communication, ensuring that even if someone knows the separate pieces, the combined secret remains safe and unguessable.

### [Pairing Function](#pairing-function)
Say we have a generator $g$ in the group $\mathbb G^\*_p$ and $a, b$ are any elements in the finite field $\mathbb F^*_p$ and $g^a$, $g^b$ are some elements in the group $\mathbb G^\*_p$. 

> A pairing function is a special kind of function that takes two inputs and produces a single output with two important properties, biliner and non-degenrate.

Author: Great, thx.

Later, when the time comes to reveal your secret, you can show the original message and prove that it matches the seal you made before. This lets someone else (the Verifier) check and confirm that your secret message is the same one you committed to in the beginning, proving that you kept your word.

The Binding and Hiding properties are extremely important and they tie back to the above cryptographic assumptions we made with the Discrete Logarithm and Strong Diffie-Hellman assumptions.

But for now, we don't need to go deep into the technicalities. In case, you want to learn more, here is a great resource for PCS from Prof. Dan Boneh[^4].

With this background, we are ready to explain KZG protocol flow and understand its construction.

## [KZG Protocol Flow](#kzg-protocol-flow)

Let us reiterate on what is the problem we are solving with KZG protocol.

We want prove that we know a specific evaluation of a function or polynomial at a point $x=a$ without revealing it.

In the KZG commitment scheme, the roles of the Trusted Third Party, Prover, and Verifier are critical to its function and security. Here's how each contributes to the process:

> 1. **Trusted Third Party (Setup Authority):** This entity is responsible for the initial setup phase of the KZG scheme. They generate the public parameters (PP) or Common Reference String (CRS) that will be used in the commitments and proofs, based on a secret that only they know. This secret is crucial for the construction of commitments but must be discarded (or kept extremely secure) after the setup to ensure the system's integrity. The trust in this party is fundamental because if the secret is mishandled or leaked, it could compromise the entire system.

Reviewer: Might be worth also noting that this is an initial setup and the party is not later involved in proving-verifying

Author: Great, thx.

    V->>P: Checks if e(C_f - f(b).g, g) == e(C_Q, ag - bg)
    end
    end
    end
```

### [Trusted Setup](#trusted-setup)
A trusted third party picks a random element $a \in \mathbb{F}_p$. They compute the public parameter (PP) or common reference string (CRS), as < $g, {a^1}.g, {a^2}.g, \ldots, {a^t}.g$ >. Then, they **delete** $a$. This step of deleteing $a$ is extremely important to secure the system.

Then, the trusted party sends the CRS to the Prover and the Verifier.

In practice, this process is wrapped around a multi-party computation (MPC) where a secret is generated in such a way that, as long as at least one participant remains honest, the randomness of the secret can be guaranteed. 

The trusted setup is a one-time procedure that generates a piece of data necessary for the cryptographic protocol to function. This data must be used every time the protocol is run, but once generated and the secrets are forgotten, no further participation from the creators of the ceremony is required. The trust in the setup comes from the fact that the secrets used to generate the data are securely discarded after the setup, ensuring that the data remains secure for future use

> Modern protocols often use a powers-of-tau setup, which involves hundreds of participants. The security of the final output depends on the honesty of at least one participant who does not publish their secret. This approach is considered "close enough to trustless" in practice, making it a practical solution for cryptographic protocols that require a trusted setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modern protocols often use a powers-of-tau setup, which involves even thousands of participants. The security of the final output depends on the honesty of at least one participant who does not publish their secret. This approach is considered "close enough to trustless" in practice, making it a practical solution for cryptographic protocols that require a trusted setup. 
```

Author: Great, thx.
